README.md, before:

TOR-quick
===

`tor-quick` is a simple docker container
for setting up a hidden service and forwarding traffic to specified addresses.

A minimal compose stack could look like this:

```yaml
services:
  tor-quick:
    image: ghcr.io/felix-zenk/tor-quick:latest
    container_name: tor-quick
    environment:
      FORWARD_ADDR: 80:127.0.0.1:8000
```

This will create a hidden service that forwards traffic on the listening port 80 to 127.0.0.1:8000.
You can also combine `tor-quick` with a server, that should be accessible as a hidden service,
in the compose stack:

```yaml
services:
  webserver:
    image: crccheck/hello-world
    container_name: hello-world-webserver
    ports:
      - 8000:8000
  tor-quick:
    image: ghcr.io/felix-zenk/tor-quick:latest
    container_name: tor-quick
    environment:
      FORWARD_ADDR: 80:webserver:8000
```

To use a specific onion address instead of generating a random one,
you can supply the hidden service directory (containing the hostname and key) as a volume:

```yaml
services:
  webserver:
    image: crccheck/hello-world
    container_name: hello-world-webserver
    ports:
      - 8000:8000
  tor-quick:
    image: ghcr.io/felix-zenk/tor-quick:latest
    container_name: tor-quick
    environment:
      FORWARD_ADDR: 80:webserver:8000
    volumes:
      - ./hidden_service:/var/lib/tor/hidden_service
```

If you want to use a random onion address, but still want it to persist between restarts,
you can use an empty directory or named volume:

```yaml
services:
  webserver:
    image: crccheck/hello-world
    container_name: hello-world-webserver
  tor-quick:
    image: ghcr.io/felix-zenk/tor-quick:latest
    container_name: tor-quick
    environment:
      FORWARD_ADDR: 80:webserver:8000
    volumes:
      - hidden_service:/var/lib/tor/hidden_service

volumes:
  hidden_service:
```

The `.onion` address of your hidden service will be printed to the logs:

```shell
$ docker logs tor-quick | grep "Onion Service address"
```

Multiple forwards can be set up by specifying numbered `FORWARD_ADDR` environment variables:

```yaml
services:
  tor-quick:
    image: ghcr.io/felix-zenk/tor-quick:latest
    container_name: tor-quick
    environment:
      FORWARD_ADDR1: 80:webserver:8000
      FORWARD_ADDR2: 22:sshserver:22
```

> Keep in mind, that [not every listening port can be used](https://support.torproject.org/relay-operators/default-exit-ports/)
> and relay operators may constrain the usable ports further.

To view the active forwards:

```shell
$ docker logs tor-quick | grep "Hidden services"
```

Commit message:

Add TORRC_EXTRA and ENABLE_VANGUARDS options

README.md, after:

TOR-quick
===

`tor-quick` is a docker container for setting up an onion service and forwarding traffic to specified addresses.

A minimal compose stack could look like this:

```yaml
services:
  tor-quick:
    image: ghcr.io/felix-zenk/tor-quick:latest
    container_name: tor-quick
    environment:
      FORWARD_ADDR: 80:127.0.0.1:8000
```

This will create an onion service that forwards traffic on the listening port 80 to 127.0.0.1:8000.  
Have a look at [docker-compose.yaml](docker-compose.yaml) for a more complete example.  

Additional environment variables can be set to configure the onion service further:

- `CHECK_DESTINATION`: If set to `true`, the destination addresses will be checked for reachability before starting the onion service.
  Helps to avoid misconfigurations.
- `ENABLE_VANGUARDS`: If set to `true`, the [Vanguards](https://github.com/mikeperry-tor/vanguards) extension will be installed and enabled.
- `TORRC_EXTRA`: Additional configuration to append to the `torrc` file.

You can also combine `tor-quick` with a server, that should be accessible as an onion service,
in the compose stack:

```yaml
services:
  webserver:
    image: crccheck/hello-world
    container_name: hello-world-webserver
    ports:
      - 8000:8000
  tor-quick:
    image: ghcr.io/felix-zenk/tor-quick:latest
    container_name: tor-quick
    environment:
      FORWARD_ADDR: 80:webserver:8000
```

To use a specific onion address instead of generating a random one,
you can supply the onion service directory (containing the hostname and key) as a volume:

```yaml
services:
  webserver:
    image: crccheck/hello-world
    container_name: hello-world-webserver
    ports:
      - 8000:8000
  tor-quick:
    image: ghcr.io/felix-zenk/tor-quick:latest
    container_name: tor-quick
    environment:
      FORWARD_ADDR: 80:webserver:8000
    volumes:
      - ./hidden_service:/var/lib/tor/hidden_service
```

If you want to use a random onion address, but still want it to persist between restarts,
you can use an empty directory or named volume:

```yaml
services:
  webserver:
    image: crccheck/hello-world
    container_name: hello-world-webserver
  tor-quick:
    image: ghcr.io/felix-zenk/tor-quick:latest
    container_name: tor-quick
    environment:
      FORWARD_ADDR: 80:webserver:8000
    volumes:
      - hidden_service:/var/lib/tor/hidden_service

volumes:
  hidden_service:
```

The `.onion` address of your onion service will be printed to the logs:

```shell
$ docker logs tor-quick | grep "Onion Service address"
```

Multiple forwards can be set up by specifying numbered `FORWARD_ADDR` environment variables:

```yaml
services:
  tor-quick:
    image: ghcr.io/felix-zenk/tor-quick:latest
    container_name: tor-quick
    environment:
      FORWARD_ADDR1: 80:webserver:8000
      FORWARD_ADDR2: 22:sshserver:22
```

> Keep in mind, that [not every listening port can be used](https://support.torproject.org/relay-operators/default-exit-ports/)
> and relay operators may constrain the usable ports further.

To view the active forwards:

```shell
$ docker logs tor-quick | grep "Hidden service"
```
